Announce 0.9.0 (#88)
kroxylicious/kroxylicious.github.io: _posts/2024-12-17-release-0_9_0.md

---
layout: post
title:  "kroxylicious release 0.9.0"
date:   2024-12-17 00:00:00 +0000
author: "Sam Barker"
author_url: "https://github.com/SamBarker"
categories:  [releases, kroxylicious, kafka3.9]
---

The Kroxylicious project is very pleased to announce the [0.9.0](https://github.com/kroxylicious/kroxylicious/releases/tag/v0.9.0) release of Kroxylicious. This release introduces support for Apache Kafka 3.9. 

We generally expect Kroxylicious to be both forwards and backwards compatible across Kafka version just like the Apache Kafka client and broker. While we tested with pre-release versions Kafka 3.9 we discovered after it was released that we had missed a case in the protocol version negotiation. When the API Versions request version was updated we were unable to decode the response. In the 0.9.0 release we adopt the same behaviour as the Kafka broker and respond with API version 0 if we do not support the protocol version requested by the client - we have also expanded our test coverage to get earlier warnings of similar issues in the future. 

> This release also marks the introduction of our new connection handling sate machine at the core of the proxy. We have evolved state machine at the core of the proxy to separate out the state carried at various stages of the connection life cycle and provide stronger rules around transitions between states. This is still a work in progress as its implications are rather wide-ranging however with think it gives us a stronger core to base everything else around. This does for the moment limit our ability to offer authentication offload support, we do intend to restore this eventually (please do get in touch if this use case is important to you).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This release also marks the introduction of our new connection handling state machine at the core of the proxy. We have evolved the state machine at the core of the proxy to separate out the state carried at various stages of the connection life cycle and provide stronger rules around transitions between states. This is still a work in progress as its implications are rather wide-ranging however we think it gives us a stronger core to base everything else around. This does, for the moment, limit our ability to offer authentication offload support, we do intend to restore this eventually (please do get in touch if this use case is important to you).
```

Reviewer 2: To add to this:
#### Spelling and grammar:

```suggestion
This release also marks the introduction of our new connection handling state machine at the core of the proxy. We have evolved the state machine at the core of the proxy to separate out the state carried at various stages of the connection lifecycle, and to provide stronger rules around transitions between states. This is still a work-in-progress as its implications are rather wide-ranging, however we think it gives us a stronger core to base everything else around. This does, for the moment, limit our ability to offer authentication offload support. We do intend to restore this eventually, so please get in touch if this use case is important to you.
```

#### Content:

> This release also marks the introduction of our new connection handling state machine at the core of the proxy.

It was hard for me to tell at first read whether `connection handling state machine` is meant to mean "a state machine that is handling connections" (i.e. `state machine` is a noun and `connection handling` is a verb), or if it's the full name of the thing, (i.e. `Connection Handling State Machine` is a proper noun, so each word should be capitalised). I think it would be less confusing overall to call it the `connection handler state machine` here, which makes it a bit more obvious what we're talking about.

> We have evolved the state machine at the core of the proxy to separate out the state carried at various stages of the connection lifecycle, and to provide stronger rules around transitions between states.

Using the phrasing `state machine at the core of the proxy` here right after using it in the previous sentence feels a bit repetitive. I actually think it fits better here than in the previous sentence, so I would just remove the `at the core of the proxy` part from the previous sentence and leave this one be.

> This is still a work-in-progress as its implications are rather wide-ranging, however we think it gives us a stronger core to base everything else around.

Rephrase to: "This is still a work-in-progress due to the wide-ranging implications it has, however we think it gives us a stronger core to base everything else around."

> This does, for the moment, limit our ability to offer authentication offload support. We do intend to restore this eventually, so please get in touch if this use case is important to you.

Would be good to describe or link to where users can get in touch with us here.

> There are many quality of life improvements in this release (in no particular order)

Reviewer: maybe we should link to the release notes somewhere near here once they're available in github

Author: Yeah, thats a good point.

Reviewer 2: Previously we have just put this line instead of listing all the changes
```suggestion
See the [Changelog](https://github.com/kroxylicious/kroxylicious/blob/main/CHANGELOG.md#080) for a list of changes and summary of Deprecations, Changes and Removals.
```

Author: I know but the old style always felt a bit bland and boring to me. So I wanted to call out the core changes in the announcement. 

I started with the idea of calling out the new contributors inline but ended up moving to a different list

> - Ensure we now respond with errors instead of closing the connection when there are problems encrypting records 

Reviewer 2: Would be good to link to the relevant issue or PR for each of these, for example:
```suggestion
- Ensure we now respond with errors instead of closing the connection when there are problems encrypting records ([#1630](https://github.com/kroxylicious/kroxylicious/pull/1630))
```

- We've made it easier for Filter authors to generate error responses of their own.
- We realised forwarding partial requests from the record validation filter in the face of validation failures was a bad idea so it now rejects the whole batch.

> - We can now use EC2 instance metadata to authenticate against the AWS KMS. 

Reviewer 2: No `the` in front of `AWS` in this context.
```suggestion
- We can now use EC2 instance metadata to authenticate against AWS Key Management Service. 
```

> - We now support the validation on M_TLS certificates on the downstream (or client side) of the proxy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- We now support mutual TLS authentication on the downstream (or client side) of the proxy.
```

Reviewer: or `the validation of mTLS certificates`, seems like a more common notation from googling around.

> - Key Management Systems (KMS) now have more life cycle calls backs to better manage shared resources. 

Reviewer 2: `lifecycle` and `callback` are all one word
```suggestion
- Key Management Systems (KMS) now have more lifecycle callbacks to better manage shared resources. 
```

> - We now default to LogJ [Async logging](https://logging.apache.org/log4j/2.x/manual/async.html) - this is mostly a performance optimisation, but we think it should address some issues we have observed with logging in kubernetes environments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- We now default to Log4J [Async logging](https://logging.apache.org/log4j/2.x/manual/async.html) - this is mostly a performance optimisation, but we think it should address some issues we have observed with logging in kubernetes environments.
```

> - We now default to Log4J [Async logging](https://logging.apache.org/log4j/2.x/manual/async.html) - this is mostly a performance optimisation, but we think it should address some issues we have observed with logging in kubernetes environments.

Reviewer 2: Specify `Log4J 2` rather than just `Log4J` ~~to preempt questions about which version we use~~ because it's more accurate.
```suggestion
- We now default to Log4J 2 [Async logging](https://logging.apache.org/log4j/2.x/manual/async.html) - this is mostly a performance optimisation, but we think it should address some issues we have observed with logging in kubernetes environments.
```

> We are very pleased to say we have first time contributions from

Reviewer 2: This sentence feels a little bit disjointed after the previous list of things, could rephrase it a little:
```suggestion
Lastly, we are very pleased to announce that this Kroxylicious release contains first time contributions from:
```

- [Calum Murray](https://github.com/Cali0707)
- [Alan Robinson](https://github.com/alanrobinson-dwp)

### Feedback

> Please let us know, through [Slack](https://kroxylicious.slack.com) or [GitHub](https://github.com/kroxylicious/kroxylicious-junit5-extension/issues), if you find the extension interesting or helpful.

Reviewer: this is talking about the extension, the prior message for the proxy 0.8.0 was:

`We are eager for any feedback, you can create an [issue in GitHub](https://github.com/kroxylicious/kroxylicious/issues) if you have any problems or want a feature added.` but having the slack link is nice too.

Author: Good catch.

Reviewer 2: Agreed, I think the extension wording is nicer but it should reference the proxy instead. How about this?
```suggestion
You can report bugs or request features in Kroxylicious by creating an issue on [GitHub](https://github.com/kroxylicious/kroxylicious-junit5-extension/issues).

Please let us know through [Slack](https://kroxylicious.slack.com) or by tagging the project on social media if you find Kroxylicious interesting or helpful!
```
We'd need to fill in the blanks with links to the Kroxylicious social handles but I think that mostly captures the same energy as the extension feedback text.

---
layout: post
title:  "Kroxylicious release 0.9.0"
date:   2024-12-17 00:00:00 +0000
author: "Sam Barker"
author_url: "https://github.com/SamBarker"
categories: kroxylicious releases
tags: releases kroxylicious kafka3.9
---

The Kroxylicious project is very pleased to announce the release of [Kroxylicious 0.9.0](https://github.com/kroxylicious/kroxylicious/releases/tag/v0.9.0). This release introduces support for Apache Kafka 3.9. 

> We generally expect Kroxylicious to be both forwards- and backwards-compatible across Kafka versions just like the Apache Kafka client and broker. While we tested with pre-release versions of Apache Kafka 3.9 we discovered after it was released that we had missed a case in the protocol version negotiation. When the `APIVersionsRequest` version was updated we were unable to decode the response. In the 0.9.0 release we adopt the same behaviour as the Kafka broker and respond with API version 0 if we do not support the protocol version requested by the client - we have also expanded our test coverage to get earlier warnings of similar issues in the future. 

Reviewer 3: nit: capitalisation
nit: it is the ApiVersions RPC that is the versioned thing, rather than APIVersionsRequest

```suggestion
We generally expect Kroxylicious to be both forwards- and backwards-compatible across Kafka versions just like the Apache Kafka client and broker. While we tested with pre-release versions of Apache Kafka 3.9 we discovered after it was released that we had missed a case in the protocol version negotiation. When the version of the `ApiVersions` RPC was updated we were unable to decode the response. In the 0.9.0 release we adopt the same behaviour as the Kafka broker and respond with API version 0 if we do not support the protocol version requested by the client - we have also expanded our test coverage to get earlier warnings of similar issues in the future. 
```

- We've made it easier for Filter authors to generate error responses of their own ([#1630](https://github.com/kroxylicious/kroxylicious/pull/1630)).
- We realised forwarding partial requests from the record validation filter in the face of validation failures was a bad idea so it now rejects the whole batch ([#1657](https://github.com/kroxylicious/kroxylicious/pull/1657)).
- We can now use EC2 instance metadata to authenticate against AWS Key Management Service ([#1442](https://github.com/kroxylicious/kroxylicious/pull/1442)). 
- We now support mutual TLS authentication on the downstream (or client side) of the proxy ([#1631](https://github.com/kroxylicious/kroxylicious/pull/1631)).
- Key Management Systems (KMS) now have more lifecycle callbacks to better manage shared resources ([#1498](https://github.com/kroxylicious/kroxylicious/pull/1498)). 
- We now default to Log4J 2 [Async logging](https://logging.apache.org/log4j/2.x/manual/async.html) - this is mostly a performance optimisation, but we think it should address some issues we have observed with logging in kubernetes environments ([#1673](https://github.com/kroxylicious/kroxylicious/pull/1673).

> This release upgrades Kroxylicious to Jackson 2.18 which "[improves](https://github.com/FasterXML/jackson-databind/issues/4785#issuecomment-2463105965)" how jackson handles constructor detection which may lead to issues with filter config.

Reviewer 2: nits: capitalize Jackson, punctuation, tone
```suggestion
This release upgrades Kroxylicious to Jackson 2.18 which [changes](https://github.com/FasterXML/jackson-databind/issues/4785#issuecomment-2463105965) how Jackson handles constructor detection, which may lead to issues with filter config.
```
